<span>c | c | c</span> <span>**Policy Analyst**</span> &
<span>**Programmer**</span> & <span>**Social Worker**</span>

RESEARCH EXPERIENCE
===================

Health Homes and Health Plans are managed care interventions designed to
reduce utilization and improve outcomes for New York State Medicaid
members with complex medical needs. Program participants are provided
with a care manager who provides comprehensive case management services.
Services range from addressing the members’ medical needs to basic
living and social needs. The theory is that providing a comprehensive
case management will result in improved medical and functional outcomes
for complex cases.

Although the model is very promising; processes, outcomes and
measurement are poorly understood. As an embedded consultant with the
New York State Department of Health, I am resposible for leading a small
team of analysts in developing an evaluation of Care Management in New
York State and advising policy makers on how to best leverage these
programs to improve the health of vulnerable New Yorkers.

Hornby Zeller Associates (HZA) is a consulting firm specializing in
child welfare, elder care, juvenile justice and mental health. As a
senior policy analyst, I was responsible for developing research
hypotheses and methodology and providing support and mentoring for less
experienced staff. Other responsibilities include data collection,
structuring and analyzing data and disseminating results.

Example projects:

-   Program / Systems Evaluation: Arkansas (IV-E Waiver), West Virginia
    (Jacob’s Law), Alaska (Mental Health Beneficiary Program)

-   Time Study: Virginia, Westchester County, Wisconsin

-   Accounting & Title IV-E Funding: Wisconsin, Georgia, Mississippi

Accomplishments:

-   Started an internship program and supervised intern.

-   Developed templates and processes making it easier to automate the
    production of complex reports, improving staff efficiency.

-   Provided ongoing training and support for junior staff learning how
    to manage and structure administrative and research data in tools
    such as PostgreSQL, SQL Server, R and SPSS.

-   Mentored junior staff in of research methods and application of
    statistical tests.

-   Introduced the use of version control for analytic code resulting in
    more reliable, reproducible results.

*www.hornbyzeller.com*

Principal Investigator for an exploratory research project which
established the existence of homeless men and women with borderline
intellectual functioning in New York State homeless shelters.

Accomplishments:

-   Obtained IRB Approval.

-   Demonstrated the validity of the Mini Mental Status Exam to identify
    homeless adults with borderline intellectual functioning.

-   Recruited, trained and supervised a team of BSW students.

-   Interviewed over 150 homeless New Yorkers. Successfully identified
    homeless adults with a historical diagnosis of borderline
    intellectual functioning.

-   Presented results to the Assistant Commissioner of the Office of
    Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities[^1].

*www.coalitionforthehomeless.org*

CLINICAL EXPERIENCE
===================

Delivered in-home services to Albany residents with mental retardation
and other developmental disabilities. Services included family support,
socialization skills and crisis counseling.

Worked with homeless guests to find housing and income in the form of
jobs or social services such as SSD. Addressed other needs on a
case-by-case basis. Developed a Guest Satisfaction Survey for the
shelter. Surveyed guests in the shelter during the winter of 2005 -
2006.\
\
*http://www.josephshousetroy.org*

Supervised an outdoor experiential program for teens with developmental
disabilities and mental health diagnoses. Responsibilities included
staff supervision and program development. Implemented a unique peer
support program using conference calls. Led multi-day canoe trips on
Indian Lake. Led family / team building activities including low and
high ropes facilitation.\
\
*http://www.ramapoforchildren.org/*

RESEARCH TOOLS
==============

<span>l l</span> <span>**Data Analysis:**</span> R, SPSS, Excel, Python\
<span>**Data Management:**</span> SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL\
<span>**Reproducible Research:**</span> LaTeX, Sweave, knitr, Org-Mode\

EDUCATION
=========

<span>p<span>1.5in</span> p<span>2.125in</span>
p<span>.75in</span></span> Master of Social Work & The State University
of New York at Albany & Albany, NY 2007\
Bachelor of International Affairs & Georgia Institute of Technology &
Atlanta, GA 2002

LaTeXversion of this document available at:
*https://github.com/Choens/Resume/*

Updated: 2016-09-22

[^1]: Now called the Office for People with Developmental Disabilities.
