---
title: Flirting with Fedora
author: Andy Choens
layout: post
category: etc.
excerpt: After many many years of using K/Ubuntu exclusively on all of my computers, I am flirting with Red Hat's Fedora.

---

After many many years of using K/Ubuntu exclusively on all of my
computers, I am flirting with Red Hat's Fedora. K's laptop is still running
Kubuntu, but mine is not and I'm getting ready to rebuild a server
with Fedora instead of Ubuntu. IIRC, I ran Fedora Core 1 briefly. I
liked it alright. But there were several releases with show-stopper
bugs and Ubuntu seemed to be moving from strength to strength at that
time. I was tired of RPM-Hell, after many years of using RPM-based
distros (Red Hat, SuSE, Mandrake). Prior to using Ubuntu, I had never
used a Debian distro.

### Impetus for the Flirtation

Truthfully, I really like Ubuntu and I when I can buy a tablet with
Ubuntu pre-installed I will probably pony up. I like a lot of what
Ubuntu is doing and I continue to think 15.04 is the nicest Kubuntu
release in a long time. It is SHARP.

Several months ago, my dependable Dell XPS 13 unexpectedly died. I
nearly bought another one, because it is a terrific laptop. Instead, I
did something crazy. I drove down to Best Buy and bought a Microsoft
Surface Pro 3. Yeah. Crazy. Ubuntu never quite worked on it. Or
rather, it never worked *well* and it required endless fiddling /
configuration.

For example:

- Suspend never worked reliably.
- Touchpad support continued to be flakey.
- To get UEFI to work, I had to keep a Windows partition, which
  effectively wasted part of the Harddrive.
- KMail continues to live in the late 90's.
- Thunderbird is a hot-mess.


But the real killer is that the Surface Pro 3 is a tablet/laptop
hybrid. Kubuntu Touch did not survive to 15.04. Plasma desktop did,
but not the tablet interface. I don't know why. Unity 7 sucks on this
thing and Unity 8 is still an unstable hot mess. Thus I found myself
owning a tablet/laptop hybrid which I was forced to use as a laptop
because I didn't have a decent touch-oriented interface.

### Temptation

Once, many years ago, I was a distro-hopper. Sad by true. I thought I
had kicked the habit, but the Surface Pro 3 problems revived the old
itch to try something new and Arch still seems like a lot of work. My
fall came in three steps.

- I read more than one glowing review of Gnome 3.16, especially on
  Phoronix. I looked at some screenshots and I was impressed.
- Then I stumbled upon a Git repo, managed by some engineers at Intel,
  providing custom Fedora kernels for the Surface Pro 3.
- After testing Fedora on a USB key briefly, I copied my files to the
  network and wiped the drive. Have I returned to my distro-hoppinh
  ways?

With a little fiddling, I was able to delete the Windows
partitions. AWESOME. Windows 10 looks interesting, but Windows 8 is a
nightmare. The intel repo is everything I had hoped it would
be. Shutting down is still a little flakey sometimes, but the custom
kernel has solved most of my hardware problems.

Gnome 3 continues to evolve. To me, it doesn't feel as smooth as
Plasma 5. It just seems a little rough around the edges but there are
some terrific ideas here. Gnome Shell isn't as configurable as Plasma,
but the extensions are cool, if a little hard for new users to
discover/understand. Apps like Evolution and Rhythmbox, long staples
of Gnome desktops, appear to be deprecated and don't quite fit with
the new Gnome HIG. Unfortunately, replacement apps like Geary and
Gnome Music aren't really feature-complete or stable (yet). I'm using
Geary (I'll make a donation later this week) but continue to use
Rhythmbox. Geary is really a beautiful email client.

It is probably just another sign of my distro-hopping-relapse, but it
is FUN to use another desktop. I still LOVE KDE. But Gnome is nice
too. Unity 8? Dunno. I have my hopes. I don't really care as long as I
have decent tools and they let me use Emacs without too much
fiddling. My biggest problem - I keep trying to start konsole, which
isn't installed. Gnome Software offers to install it for me. My
fingers aren't used to starting gnome-terminal from F-2. Obviously, a
minor gripe which is really user-errror, not a problem with Gnome.

### Will I Install this on K's Latop?

Fedora is working. . . for me. But I don't think I can install this on
K's laptop. She is going to continue to use KDE. Gnome 3.16 is
beautiful, but very different. I think she would struggle with the
dramatic change in workflow. Gnome Software is beautiful, but there
are many applications missing from it's catalog because of missing App
Data.

I give Fedora 2 thumbs up for geeks. For everyone else, stick to
Ubuntu, at least for now.
