---
title: "Folks, there's never been a situation like this in the history of our country."
author: Andy Choens
layout: post
category: politics
excerpt: "Mr. Trump, please don't break our democracy."
---

Mr. Trump,

I thought I would start with a quote from you, Mr. Trump. I use this
quote to highlight just how out of line you and your campaign are. You
will get defeated in November. Hell, you're going to get flattened,
because you are not a winner. Not this time.

In the meantime, please don't break our democracy. This election has
been one ongoing shit-show from top to bottom. This debacle has been
driven by the deplorable policy positions taken by Donald Trump, the
Republican nominee. Since the beginning of his campaign, I have argued
that his campaign has been a traditional Republican campaign. The only
difference was that it embraced, openly, the deplorable ideology that
other Republicans only wink at. Let's be clear, Donald Trump is the
nominee the Republican Party deserves. Paul Ryan, John McCain, and all
the others are running away from their candidate, but this is the
logical end-result of the reality-distortion play that has been run
time and time again by the Republican leadership.

He didn't come out of nowhere. He was created by the Republican
leadership. It took years for their crazy train to go this far afield,
but there ain't no stopping the crazy now. Do establishment
Republicans WANT an openly sado-masochistic, racist nominee? Probably
not. But they have long winked at the right-wing cultural crazies, and
now they run the party.

Congrats. This is what the Republican Party deserves. It isn't what we
as a nation need. I don't particularly like Hillary Clinton. I might
have even been open to voting for a responsible Republican this
season. 

<h5>BUT I WILL NEVER VOTE FOR A FASCIST LIKE TRUMP</h5>

In the past few days, Trump evolved as a candidate. He metastasized
from being a cancer of the Republican Party to a cancer of the
electoral system. His baseless claims that he is losing the election
for any reason, other than the obvious (he is a terrible person),
undermine the trust our democracy rests upon.

At this point, I'm worried. Could there be violence on election day? I
truly hope not. But if there is, I lay the blame squarely at the feet
of Donald Trump and the establishment Republicans who created him.

Don't break our democracy. Please.

