---
title: "Now, Mr. Trump, It Begins"
author: Andy Choens
layout: post
category: Politics
excerpt: "Well, that sucked. Who thought America would elect an openly racist, misogyist fascist to the Presidency. Clearly, only those who truly care about family values."
---

It was a rough night. I don't like Hillary Clinton, but I wanted her
to win. Because Donald Trump is, I fear, cancerous to Democracy. But
either way, now it begins.

My father was right. We've heard these fools bitch for eight years
about how they can do it better. Well, here's your chance. Republicans
have control of both houses of Congress and a President who will
apparently sign any fool thing push across his desk.

Game On.

Meanwhile. I'm looking for a few good progressives. You know. The ones
with the ability to communicate. Progressives with a spine. Donald
Trump was literally the worst candidate ever, and he beat her.

Why?

No, I don't think it was Comey or the emails, or any of that. Trump
promised change. His changes are nearly all bad, but they ARE
different. And he was bold about it. Unapologetic.

Clinton's policies were not, for the most part, bad. But I have NO
IDEA what she would have done with her first 100 days. I know exactly
what Trump will do with his. This seems obvious. Boil the policies
down to some key ideas and push them. PUSH THEM HARD. For all his lack
of focus, Trump was a better communicator in this campaign than
Hillary.

Because . . . . other than 1) she would have been the first woman
president and 2) she is NOT a fascist . . . why would anyone vote for
her? Admittedly, these ARE compelling reasons but not to an electorate
hungering for change.

They needed a message of HOPE. They heard a message of FEAR. And
many. Far too many. Embraced it.
