---
title: "Quid Pro Quo?"
author: Andy Choens
layout: post
category: Politics
excerpt: "Mr. Trump, these are some serious accusations."
---

This evening, I started reading some disturbing allegations regarding
an apparent quid pro quo between Russia and the victorious Trump
campaign in the New York Times, Politico, etc. As of this evening, these
allegations have not been verified by anyone. But if true, they would
be startlingly illegal.

<a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/10/us/politics/donald-trump-russia-intelligence.html">Trump
Received Unsubstantiated Intelligence on Ties to Russia</a>

The New York Times is hardly the only news organization covering this
story. As I type this story is on the front page of CNN, Politico, and
even the Albany Times Union. Not surprisingly, I cannot find this
story on Fox News.

OF course, the FBI cannot comment on an investigation in public, or
even confirm or deny the existence of an investigation. Unless, of
course, the investigation happens to involve Hillary Clinton and an
election is only a few days away. In that case, the FBI can definitely
publicly comment on an investigation.

I'm just one guy, sitting at a keyboard. And I do not think anyone
actually reads what I write here. But if these allegations are proven,
Trump has to go. I don't care about the hookers. I don't care about
the kompromat. I do care that Trump may have accepted information on
American political rivals from Putin, in exchange for adopting
policies favorable to the Kremlin. If that is true, Trump must go.

First, we need to wait. We need to see if these allegations can be
verified. If they cannot be verified, this is just more smoke. But if
these allegations can be verified, Trump MUST go. He can go
voluntaril, by impeachment, or we can all march on Washington and
reclaim our democracy. But first, I want some proof. This is no time
to go off half-cocked; I like think I'm a little more mature than the
President-elect.

Sadly, if proven, the only winner in this discussion is Russia. It
seems increasingly clear Russia worked hard to undermine our faith in
our democratic institutions. 

Mission Accomplished!

1. If this is disproven, many Democrats/Progressives will never really
   get over it, and they will continue to feel that they were robbed
   of a legitimate victory.
2. If this is proven, and Congress fails to impeach Trump; many of us
   will lose whatever vestigal faith we did have in Congress.
3. If this is proven and Trump steps down before inauguration, we
   enter into a political/constitutional crisis.
4. If this is proven and Trump is impeached, it will leave a lasting
   scar on our democratic processes. Trump's die-hards will never
   believe these allegations. People like me won't accept anything
   less than impeachment. 
   
This could get ugly. I hope not, but it really could.
