I haven't run SuSE in years. In the years that followed, I ran Red
Hat, SuSE (and then SUSE), Mandrake, Fedora, Ubuntu, etc. Tried Gentoo
once. Too much trouble. I really liked Ubuntu and I used it for a
number of years, mostly the Kubuntu variant. This year, I bought a
Microsoft Surface on a whim. Kernel support for this hardware is
. . . complicated. I found an copr repo run by some developers at
Intel that adds a bunch of useful patches to make Linux run better on
the Surface. I tried to run Kubuntu on it and patch/compile my own
kernel, but the Intel guys seemed to be doing a better job and I wound
up just compiling their repo on my laptop.

It seemed easier to just switch to Fedora for a while and use their
copr repo directly. And, I had not used Gnome in years. So, I copied
files and what not to an external drive and wiped my harddrive. I've
been running Fedora now for over three months. Even took it with me to
Ireland.



Gnome is different from KDE. Nautilus sucks. It seems to be competing
with the default file manager on Windows for the file-management-sucks
award. If the Sunflower devs ever push out a GTK3 version that is
integrated with 


If you want some obviously biased history, read on:

Like the above, my really biased comments will be in italics.

If you follow politics, you may have heard of Carly Fiorina. I'm
(thankfully) not Donald Trump and I'm not going to make any
misogynistic comments about her. But I will criticize her.

Fiorina became CEO of HP in 1999. Her campaign for President is
largely predicated on her business experience. For that reason along,
I could never vote for her. The Ars Technica article skimmed over the
long history of HP in Enterprise IT. At some point in 2000, Fiorina
decided HP should enter the enterprise IT market. To do so, it would
buy a largely forgotten company called Compaq. This was a contentious
idea both internally and externally. In the short-term, Fiorina
won. Under her leadership, HP bought Compaq during 2001 for an
outrageous sum of money.

This purchase made me sad. Compaq made GREAT business laptops. HP? Not
so much. Even all these years after Comapq's demise, HP still makes
sub-standard business class notebooks. I know, I know, I digress.

The combined HP / Compaq entity replaced Dell as the world's largest
manufacturer of PCs and laptops. More importantly, HP bought Compaq's
experience in enterprise IT development and consulting. This is a
market dominated by names like IBM, Dell, Oracle and Red Hat. They
sell integrated devices and services to big IT shops like state and
federal agencies, large corporations, etc. For those who can succeed,
it can be very rewarding and HP wanted into that lucrative market.

Unfortunately, HP's dream didn't work out. Even with Compaq, HP didn't
have the experience or investment to really compete in the enterprise
IT marked against the established players.

Disclosure - I LOVE IBM SERVERS and I own more than one Thinkpad.

By 2004, Fiorina is forced out as CEO, in large part because of
falling revenue across all sectors of the business (did I mention
their not-so-great laptops?) and her ongoing fight with the Board
about the "HP Way".

I believe HP's board made a belatedly good decision in firing her. I
also think they should have done it before they bought Compaq, not
after. Trying to turn HP into IBM / Oracle was a terrible idea. And
history is proving me and all the others who thought this was a bad
idea, correct.

HP has flirted with splitting up before, but always pulled back from
pulling the trigger. They may well do so again. I don't know. What I
do know is that HP is a company struggling to define itself and its
role in the IT landscape and DOH is heavily invested in its success
because we are now heavily invested in HP technology.

The tech is good but HP isn't healthy. Irony: DOH buys unhealthy
software.

Vertica was bought by HP in 2011, because HP was convinced owning a
database server would fix their enterprise IT financial problems. It
didn't. Vertica is a good tool, but if support fails because the
company implodes, it won't matter.

In contrast - If you use an open source product and the company
driving the technology fails, the technology / product doesn't
necessarily fail with the company. Firebird outlived Borland's
Interbase debacle. You can still use it and there are still companies
supporting it. Open source databases such as PostgreSQL exist
independent of any single company. Multiple companies contribute to /
support Postgres. The failure of any single company is inconvenient
for the customer, but customers can then turn to a surviving company
to get support and to continue development. Software only ides when
development and support end. For a tool like Vertica, there is only
HP, but that is because it is proprietary and it doesn't have to be
that way. 
